So let's continue working on this and let's change this to a let's say text change handler function
which we now assigned to.
On change text here on the title but which we also can add to our image your L..
So here for on change text I also set this to text chain handler and now for this to work we need to
make sure that this function gets information about which input it was trigger for.
So whether you just typed in the title or in the image you are El input.
So besides getting the text I always expect to get a different argument.
I expect to get my input identifier or anything like that you can name it whatever you want.
So that this function can be reused for multiple text inputs and we still get information about which
input a trigger does.
So we can forward this to our reducer where we will later need this information to update our state
correctly.
Now to get this input identifier functionality we need to go to the places where we use text change
handler and there we can for example use bind or use a wrapping anonymous arrow function instead to
bind this where I don't care about but more importantly to configure the arguments does function will
get in there it's one special argument which I want to pass and that's the input identifier.
And for this function here for dysfunction call on this text input.
This of course would be title for this input down there we would have find this image you are El.
And again this should be an identifier which you also have in your state up there in your form state
which you pass to the reducer with that ad it will make sure that text change handler is executed and
gets this input identifier argument.
The text argument will all be received because that's the default argument which react native would
pass us anyways and this will then automatically be received as a lost argument in that function.
So we don't have to and we actually can't bind this here.
It will be forwarded automatically.
Now we have a reusable text change handler function here we can assign as to the average inputs as well
like here to the image you are El like down here for the price we can bind text change handler bind
this and then price is all right and the far here and of course all the for the description there we
paste this in and then bind to this and the identifier is description.
Now this same handler can be used for all inputs but right now of course it does one thing.
It validates each input for its length.
Now that might make sense and it does here.
No input should be empty but you might want some other validation as well.
For example my price here should be a number greater than zero.
Let's say so that zero is not allowed as a input that on the other end is not some criteria that matters
to me on average inputs will find a elegant solution for dead later.
For now let's stick with this smallest common denominator validation which we can apply to all inputs
to make sure they're at least not empty.
And let's focus on the reducer function how our forward state should change.
When does 4 input update action with all that data is dispatched.
Because right now nothing will happen.
We have our initial state under reduced her and that will be passed or stored in the form state but
this state will never change.
Well that's why we dispatch an action right.
That's why we do this year.
This is why form input update is dispatched and that is why we want to write some code here and there
user when does action reaches us here.
Now in there if this action reaches us in the end the goal is to make sure that we update this state
snapshot.
Our current state snapshot appropriate.
This means that for example we'll need some updated values for this I create a new object because my
input values here.
That's an object and it will create a new one to replace it and it will first of all copy the existing
state input values.
Keep in mind that the state here is passed and automatically that's our current state snapshot before
we updated and therefore initially that's this state snapshot here for example and this will have input
values key which in turn holds the object.
And that's just what I'm copying here.
I'm copying all the key value pairs off that input values snapshot and then I want to replace the key
value pair for the input for which does action was dispatched.
The good thing is that we attach the input identifier to the action so we can go to the reducer and
dynamically overwrite a key here in the copied input values.
The key is action dot input of course that's our input identifier which we attached to the action and
the value should be action dot value.
That's all we need to do so we dynamically store the value that was dispatched with the all the dynamically
assigned input and update our copied input values.
Now we can return and use state here because that's the goal of your own reducer.
Like for the read X reducer Indiana test return a new state snapshot.
And there I want to copy the existing state but overwrite the input values with the updated values which
copies my old values so that no data is lost and then replaces one of the key value pairs in their obviously.
It's not all to just replace the values or update the values.
I also want to update my validity is.
So here are my updated validity is and just as with the values I start by copying my input.
Validity is key because the input validity is is a key here.
As you can see
and then I want to replace 1 validity for dy input which we get on the action so tidal image your l
or whatever it is and replaced it with action is valid because we get the information whenever that
is valid or not as part of the action that is dispatched right.
We're forwarding this here based on this basic validation we have here.
Now with that we just need to update this here.
So our input validity is here are equal to the updated validity is and now we just have to manage the
overall form validity for that.
I add a variable a helper variable form is valid which initially is true and then I loop through all
my updated validity.
Which are my old copied validity.
And then the one updated validity for the input we just typed in.
So here we have a for in loop where we go through all the keys in updated validity is and the goal is
simple I check every form input validity and if all form input validity is are valid.
If they are all true then the overall form is valid.
If at least one of them is false the overall form is false.
The real form is not valid so therefore here form is valid is equal to the latest form is valid state
we have and then the updated validity is validity for the input recurrent looking at some for this key
and we're going through all the inputs here.
The way does boolean operator works as such dead falls overrides true.
So if any input is false form is valid will be set to false and can't be set to true thereafter.
So if at least one input is invalid the overall form will be invalid and therefore now I don't need
to copy my state anymore here while it because I will replace the entire state snapshot and set form
is valid to my derived form is valid here.
And of course to avoid confusion we could also named as updated form is valid here and here and here
and here.
Now just one additional thing if we don't make it into this if block.
So if some other action was dispatched or anything else then I will just return the unchanged state
here with Dad.
We added a reducer logic that is able to handle any input or any typing into any of our text inputs.
Now we just need to use the form state which will change with every keystroke which is just what happened
before but now all centralized and merged into one managed state which I think is way cleaner than having
tons of different states for validity and values and by the way managing all these states manually and
separately would have become a big problem when you done one to validate the overall form validity.
So now we can use the forum state which will change with every keystroke and we use it for example here
on the values we pass back in the value for this text input by accessing forums state input values dot
title and obviously we do the same here for the image URL we feed this back in.
So just what we did before it now with our form state managed with the help of the reducer.
Same for the price of course and also the same for the description like that.
No besides changing it here we all to have to change it in some other places.
For example here in the submit handler of course their title is valid.
This no longer exists but we can check form state input validity is title that is true or false and
if it's false it means it's not valid.
So this check should be fine.
Of course however we care about the validity of all inputs.
So instead of just checking them all manually here by concatenate them into a long if statement we can
just check if form state form is valid is false because that means some input is false and therefore
we showed his error.
That's the shorter check and does of course also when we want to avoid that the forum gets submitted.
If the form gets submitted however title description and image you l that no longer exists.
Instead that's now forum state input values dot title and so on.
So we do the same here.
For the description and for the image you or L we derive our values from the former state same of course
here for creating we get the title and the description and the image URL and all of course the price
which has still converts to a number with the plus here we get all of that out of our former State of
the input values therefore of course our dependency here is not title description image New Orleans
on instead its just form said if the form states changes which it will on every keystroke then this
function should be rebuilt and it needs to be rebuilt because the information that's used by the function
changes with every keystroke.
The validity can change with every keystroke.
The values you want to submit can change with every keystroke.
We also can of course now use this to show our error message instead of checking title is valid which
doesn't exist anymore.
We check for him state DOT input validity his dot title if Dad is false then I want to show it text.
So now it's dead.
If we save all of that we should be able to check this to go to our page here.
We see this error initially.
We start typing it disappears.
Try to submit this it fails because I have three empty inputs.
If I do enter something valid they are on the other end.
This works if I try editing.
Let's try this on Android maybe to mix things up.
So if I try adding to editing the red shirt here I can submit this just fine.
Now let's also try submitting this if.
Does this empty then I get the alert.
So this works in the way it should work.
Now with this more elegant for management using use reducer and of course you can not just use use reducer
when working with Florence.
This is just a particularly good example for when it makes sense to merge multiple states together and
therefore have highly reusable and efficient code.
Now I'm still not done though because all this code repetition with the inputs here which are always
structured in the same way and the missing customization possibilities regarding the validation.
These are the things I want to tackle next.